docs: initial content for the Trace class (#37)
NativeScript/docs: content/guide/core/tracing.md

---
title: Tracing
---

The Trace class allows you to:

- control the [categories of messages](#addcategories-and-setcategories) you log to the console
- [disable](#disable) multiple messages logging at once
- [handle errors](/guide/error-handling)

## Using Trace

The following 3 steps outline the basic usage of the Trace class.

The first two step should be executed earlier in your applicaton, usually in the [app.ts](/project-structure/src/main-js-ts) file.

1. Specify atleast one category to trace:

```ts
Trace.setCategories("category"))
// or
Trace.setCategories(Trace.categories.concat("category1","category2"));
//or
Trace.addCategories("categ1, categ2")
```
If you don't set any category or the category you pass to `Trace.write()` is not one of the registered, `Trace.write`'s message won't be logged.

2. Enable tracing

```ts
Trace.enable()
```

> 3. Call the `Trace.write()` where you would call `console.log()` passing it a message,a category name and optionally, a message type. The category should be one of those you set with `Trace.setCategories()`

Reviewer: 3.  Instead of using console.log(), use Trace.write() to log your messages. Pass the message content, a category name, and optionally, a message type as arguments to Trace.write(). Make sure that the category you provide is one of the categories you have previously set using Trace.setCategories().

> 3. Call the `Trace.write()` where you would call `console.log()` passing it a message,a category name and optionally, a message type. The category should be one of those you set with `Trace.setCategories()`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Instead of using console.log(), use Trace.write() to log your messages. Pass the message content, a category name, and optionally, a message type as arguments to Trace.write(). Make sure that the category you provide is one of the categories you have previously set using Trace.setCategories().
```

```ts
Trace.write('some message', 'category')
```

### Creating custom Trace writer
For an example, see `app/trace/trace-writer.ts` in the editor below.
<!-- TODO: Add the example in a Preview -->

#### Registering custom trace writer

> In order to use the custom TraceWriter instance, you have to register it with the Trace module, using the `addWriter()` method.

Reviewer: To utilize a custom TraceWriter instance, you need to register it with the Trace module by using the addWriter() method. This ensures that your custom writer is recognized and incorporated into the Trace functionality.

> In order to use the custom TraceWriter instance, you have to register it with the Trace module, using the `addWriter()` method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To utilize a custom TraceWriter instance, you need to register it with the Trace module by using the addWriter() method. This ensures that your custom writer is recognized and incorporated into the Trace functionality.
```
